docs: Introduction to the Open Food Facts API (#7444)
openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server: docs/introduction/api.md

# Open Food Facts API Documentation

Everything you need to know about Open Food Facts API.

## Overview

Open Food Facts is a food products database made by everyone, for everyone, that can help you make better food choices. Seeing it is open data, anyone can reuse it for any purpose. For example, you are building a nutrition app.
The Open Food Facts API enables developers to add to the products database and retrieve information about existing products. You may use the API to build applications allowing users to contribute to the database and make healthier food choices.
The current version of the API is `2`.

<!--- We can add a disclaimer image beside the next paragraph instead of making it a subheading -->

Data in the Open Food Facts database is provided voluntarily by users who want to support the program. As a result, there are no assurances that the data is accurate, complete, or reliable. The user assumes the entire risk of using the data.

> 

Reviewer: I think we shall add a **Before you start** section, that use same text as on https://world.openfoodfacts.org/data.

A first section for license (as on data page)

A second section on "how to best use the API" taking text on /data under *Wrappers and SDKs*

## Environment

The OpenFoodFacts API has two environments.

- Production: <https://world.openfoodfacts.org>
- Staging: <https://world.openfoodfacts.net>

Consider using the [staging environment]( https://world.openfoodfacts.net) if you are not in a production scenario. While testing your applications, make all API requests to the staging environment. This way, we can ensure the product database is safe.

> The staging environment has an extra level of authentication (username: off, password: off). When making API requests to staging, you may use <https://off:off@world.openfoodfacts.net/> as the base URL to include the authentication.

Reviewer: Put it in warning ?

```suggestion
> **Warning**: The staging environment has an extra level of authentication (username: off, password: off). When making API requests to staging, you may use <https://off:off@world.openfoodfacts.net/> as the base URL to include the authentication.
```

## Authentication

All requests do not require authentication except for WRITE operations (Editing an Existing Product, Uploading images…).
<!---We may want to explain why -->

> Create an account on the [Open Food Facts app](https://world.openfoodfacts.org/). Include your account credentials as parameters for authenticated requests where `user_id` is your username and `password` is your password.

Author: I am not sure I understand this , what do you mean?

To allow users of your app to contribute without registering individual accounts on the Open Food Facts website, you can create a global account. This way, we know that these contributions came from your application.

> > The account you create in the production environment will only work for requests in production. You need to create an account in the staging environment if you want to make authenticated requests in staging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The account you create in the production environment will only work for requests in production. You need to create an account in the [staging environment](https://world.openfoodfacts.net) if you want to make authenticated requests in staging.
```

> <!--Add a section that links to the API reference docs -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reference documentation (OpenAPI)

<!--Add a section that links to the API reference docs -->
```

## Tutorials
<!--Have different categories of Tutorials and include the links in this session -->

## Help

> - Try the FAQ - to answer most of your questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Try the [FAQ](https://support.openfoodfacts.org/help/en-gb/12-api) - to answer most of your questions.
```

> - Didn't get a satisfactory answer? Contact the Team on the Slack Channel. <!---Are we sure the next level of support is from FAQ to slack? If yes, embed links -->

Reviewer: Yes I think for now it's reasonable :-) 

```suggestion
- Didn't get a satisfactory answer? Contact the Team on the #api [Slack Channel.](https://slack.openfoodfacts.org/)
```

> - Report Bugs on the Open Food Facts Database.

Reviewer: You should put the link to issues here also.

- Do you have an issue or feature request? You can submit it here [here on GitHub](https://github.com/openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server/issues/new).

> - Are you interested in contributing to this project? See your Contribution Guidelines.

Reviewer: this is https://github.com/openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md

(in the future we should modify doc generation to integrate that file to the doc as I did for the README)

 <!-- Embed contribution guideline link.-->

## SDKS

SDKs are available for specific languages to facilitate the usage of the API.

> > **Warning**: The Open Food Facts API reference is the primary documentation source. Endeavor to read it before exploring any SDK.

Reviewer: I think the important here is not to link to API reference, but more to recall user should first read the **Before you begin** sections.

Author: SO we should add the link to the API reference first , that's what you're saying?

## Help

- Try the [FAQ](https://support.openfoodfacts.org/help/en-gb/12-api) - to answer most of your questions.
- Didn't get a satisfactory answer? Contact the Team on the #api [Slack Channel.](https://slack.openfoodfacts.org/)
- [Report Bugs](https://github.com/openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server/issues/new/choose) on the Open Food Facts Database.
- Do you have an issue or feature request? You can submit it [here on GitHub](https://github.com/openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server/issues/new).
- Are you interested in contributing to this project? See our [Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
 <!-- Embed contribution guideline link.-->

## SDKS

SDKs are available for specific languages to facilitate the usage of the API. We probably have a wrapper for your favorite programming language. If we do, you can use it and improve it. If we don't, you can help create it.

They will let you consume data and let your users contribute new data.

> > **Warning**: Before exploring any SDK, endeavor to read the **Before You Start** section and the **API Reference Documentation**.

Reviewer: I think they don't need to read the API Reference, but just to remember that it's the one which is the more accurate.

```suggestion
> **Warning**: Before exploring any SDK, endeavor to read the **Before You Start** section. Also remember, in case of problem, to check the **API Reference Documentation** first to verify if the problem is in SDK implementation or in the API itself.
```
